---
layout: post
title: "git学习笔记"
author: fukua95
tags: ["git"]
category: 
key: 100011
---
git笔记(抄写ppt).  
**资料**  
[Git Basics](https://www.cs.cornell.edu/courses/cs3110/2019fa/levelup/git-basics.pdf)  
[Advanced Git](https://www.cs.cornell.edu/courses/cs3110/2019fa/levelup/git-advanced.pdf)  
  
**正文**  
几个概念:  
* local: code on your machine.  
* remote: code not on your machine(i.e. the production codebase in Github).  
* repository: a project/set of files.  
* working directory: the folder you're working out of.  
* staging area: a place for files getting ready to be pushed out.  
  
### git pull  
fetch and pull files from a remote repository into local repository.   
updates files in local repository  
### git add  
```shell
git add. or git add <filename> or git add -A  
```
add file and its changes to the staging area  
files that you change are not automatically staged  
### git commit  
```shell
git commit -m "<new message>"  
```
collect the files in the staging area  
records the changes to the repository like  a snapshot  
### git push  
upload local repository content to remote repository  
i.e. I've made changes and I want my partner to see them now!  
### git reset  
```shell 
git reset <filename>  
```
Unstage file(s)  
i.e. I've done "git add" on files that I don't actually want to stage!  
```shell 
git reset HEAD~1  
git reset HEAD~num  
```
Remove the commit before  
git reset HEAD~num removes num commits before  
### git revert  
```shell 
git revert <commit ID>  
```
Undo the commit from commit ID, as if it didn't happen, but keep a record of it.  
This creates a commit  
i.e. I messed up, but don't want to just delete the commit from the history. Instead, I want the log to show that I undid a commit.  
### git checkout <file>  
```shell 
git checkout <filename>  
```
Change a file to the version on the remote repository  
Note: git checkout has different meanings depending on if you give it a filename, branch, commit, etc. We are only talking about filename for right now.  
### git status  
Shows state of the working directory and staging area  
### git log  
Shows your commit history  
### Branch  
an independent piece of development  
a new pointer to a commit  
like a tree branch or a fork in the road  
### Merge Conflicts  
Your changes conflict with another member's changes  
  
// TODO: 看Advanted Git.  











